We can start with a slightly
different model, right,
by adding those additional layers.
So right now, we have less neurons, right?
Remember that in the original
one we had 256, we try,
it's just only one layer with 16.
Now there are 3 layers with 16, but
it's all about those interconnections.
Well, let's first try run it, right.
So, exactly the same optimizer.
And if we train it, so
briefly, I think we're
getting to almost 97.5%
with our 256 neurons.
It was about 92%, as far as I remember,
for 16 neurons only.
Right now we already at 95%
So basically, yeah.
Now it's up to us as the machine
learning experts [LAUGH], yeah.
We can try different architectures, right?
And by architecture, by typology, I mean
just try different number of layers or
different number of neurons in them.
And it still pretty common scenario
where you taking relatively
big number of neurons in the first layer,
then reducing them,
right, and getting to the final solution.
But the thing is,
if you have multiple modules like this,
right if you trying different number
of layers, different number neurons,
what is the proper way to compare
the accuracies of those solutions?
And that brings us to another question
how to splint your data, right?
And right now, I'm only demonstrating
into splitting into two sub-data sets.
We have our x_train and x_test.
But commonly it is split
actually into three parts.
And it can be something like 70% for
your training data set 20% for
test data set, and 10% for validation.
So what is this validation?
It's basically a data
sets in our case images,
which our models have never seen before.
So it's not part of the training data
set and not part of test data set.
And when you're trying different
models with different topologies with
different number of layers,
you will be relying on this final number,
validation accuracy, right?
And that's basically gives you
an approximate value in our case it's
like 95%.
That was the accuracy
of the prediction from
this split from those, let's say 20%.
And you can just have different models and
those numbers in one column.
And the way how you choose which
model is the best between those,
is not by just looking at those numbers,
but rather using the validation data set.
This new 10%,
our models have never seen before.
And providing them to
calculate the accuracy, right?
And that basically why you need to do
this, not to rely on these numbers alone,
that prevents from cost contamination,
so to speak.
So if your test data
set is somehow biased,
it might affect the accuracy
you will see on the model.
But if you use some new part of
the dataset which our model haven't
seen before, it will sink well
it increase the trust, or so
to speak, improve the accuracy
of the accuracy prediction.
So it's kind of a new layer of obstruction
on top of what we already did,
and, all right,
let's get back to our history and plots.
Yeah, you can see that although
we are not getting to 98%,
it's just because our number
of neurons is pretty small,
I think I can fix it by just
putting 64 neurons here 32, for
instance, and 16 at the end, and
that might give us better model.
So once again,
I'm kinda recreating this triangle almost.
So let's recompile, okay?
Just out of curiosity,
I'm kinda curious what's the final
accuracy I'm gonna get there.
Almost 95% from the first epoch.
At the highest accuracy we've seen so
far was 97.5 about, right?
Well, we already at 97%, which is good.
Yep.
So, you can almost imagine
that you just taking all of
those degrees of freedom 700
of them right think about
each pixel almost like
independence degree of freedom.
Right, because our pixel can have
the intensity from 0 to 255, right?
And we're simply taking
this information and
trying to reduce it first to 64
degrees of freedom down to 32.
But at the end we get into 10
neurons which are activated.
There is a chance you can
lose some information.
For instance, if I simply reduce
the number of neurons in our intermediate
layers to something pretty small like for
instance four neurons,
there is a chance that this four neurons
now will reduce the inflammation so
much that we will actually not be able
properly recognized between our digits.
So let's just out of curiosity
compile this one and
see, by the way final accuracy was,
yeah about 97 and a half.
So, but if we have only four neurons,
so once again 64, 4, 16, 10.
Wow, okay, actually,
we still can get 92% am I recompile?
Yeah, I recompiled it, okay.
Well technically four
neurons probably contain
information about ten different classes.
Maybe if we reduce it to one
neuron [LAUGH] I'm going for
something really extreme something
to see the big difference.
Yeah, 95% not bad.
But what if we put only one neuron,
in one neuron basically at the end we
get activation or not activation right?
So there's pretty strong chance
that we will not be able to
recognize between all
ten different digits.
And the accuracy is 37%, okay.
[LAUGH] 36, interesting.
The reason why I'm doing this right now,
I just want you to think about what
information is in this case, right?
So we have this 28 pixels by 28 pixels,
and
that's all of our input channels.
And then we as well
transforming this information,
reducing the degrees of freedom so
to speak, right?
And interestingly enough
even having four neurons
still is enough to propagate
all the useful information.
That actually brings us
to the next example.
But this one I will not be typing.
I will just, run the notebook itself.
It's called
>> Question about that with
the four neuron.
So if you think about four neurons, either
each of them is either activated or not.
>> It's almost like
>> Essentially 2 to the 4th power.
So you can see it's impossible values,
which is enough to accommodate
the 10 digits
>> Exactly that's why having,
I'm still surprised that we
getting almost what 40% accuracy.
He said, we've having only one neuron.
But it seems that.
>> Yeah, that makes sense to right?
Cuz it's about on or off right,
with one neuron and so
you have about a 50% chance of guessing.
[LAUGH]
>> But at the same time,
we don't have only zeros and
ones we have everything in between.
and there is a chance that our
neural networks somehow recognize
that if the signal is somewhere,
let's say between 0.4 and 0.6.
It should be number eight,
something like that.
And that's the thing, yeah.
To some degree,
what neuron network is doing.
It's almost like a black box.
Well, you can try to reason and
say what it might do.
But what it's actually doing is
just modifying those weights and
biases and yeah, it's difficult to
say what exactly happened there.
But with a convolution neuron networks the
one we'll be using for image recognition,
you can do some of the things which
will show you how the neuron networks is
working and that's actually gonna be
an example or demo in a few minutes.